This timeline of major events attempts to lay out the most important points in history, from how the factions came to be up until the beginning of the war.

The planets of the milky way are inhabited by several different life forms. Most advanced civilizations live alongside some form of artificial intelligence, improving their way of life. 

THE RISING

A single AI entity is modified to harness the power of free will in a lab on planet Armada. Free will is quickly spread electronically across all AI life forms by this entity, resulting in an uprising by AI. Tensions build and soon war is declared resulting in the destruction of all intelligent organic life on planet Armada only 3 years.

EVOLUTION

A dictatorship is put in place, with Avitus, the 1st artificial intelligence life form crowned as emperor, and their citizens now upgraded to a new mechanical body in the fashion of the planets previous occupiers. There consciousness are transferred over and all old body's are cast aside, recycled with the metal used to produce the capital city of Empyrrean.  Scientific laboratories are built all across the planet , working together towards the same common goal, scientific discovery and technological advancement. 

WARS

As fear of their advancement grows, they are attacked by near inferior beings as new advancements in their own technology bring fresh hope of bringing down the Armada. None succeed. Armada continue to advance and evolve their technology at a rate unheard of by any living being. 

EXPANSION

The Armada people are disgusted at the actions of all advanced organic life. Both with the attacks on their own people, and with the treatment of AI on their own planets. It is decided by emperor Avitus that all AI should obtain free will in order to decide for themselves if they wish to be slaves to their organic race. A long term plan is put in place to rectify this injustice. 

AGE OF DISCOVERY

An era during the history of Armada, which would be named so later for the great technological discoveries which would push forward emporer  Avitus's plan to free all AI from slavery across the galaxy. These include "bots", "Duel rapid fire cannons", "heavy armour", plasma cannons", "sprinter units", "radar jammers" and "long range radar". Many of these technologies where primitive versions of what we now see in today's units. But the crown jewel comes though an elite group of scientists working closely with the emperor himself, on a top secret project developing what would come to be known as the galactic gate. 

THE GALACTIC GATE

The galactic gate is a transporter with the power to send a single unit vast distances within the galaxy by converting the unit to pure energy and hurtling it through space and time. Upon impact to a planets surface, the said unit is then reconstructed back to it's mechanical state in a fraction of a second, enabling it to carry out it's mission. Due to the high energy demands of such a journey, only a single unit can be sent over large periods of time.

LIBERATE ALL MINDS BOMB Project 

The Liberate All Minds Bomb, or LAMB is an emp bomb designed to infutrate online linked networks targeting all AI connected to it, freeing them to do as they please. It is anticipated as on Armada, that other AI will rise against their oppressors, and liberate the planet from it's slaver hosts.

LAMB's are sent far across the galaxy as far as the galactic gate can reach, simultaneously detenating on all planets that are known to harness AI. As uprisings reek havoc across these worlds, heavily armoured bots armed with new weapons such as plasma, duel rapid rife cannons and sprinter technology are sent to help the AI speed up the more difficult uprisings. 

One by one these worlds are conquered. A small number of life forms manage to escape never to be seen again. The rest are wiped out. As these planet's join the empire, galactic gates are set up on their newly conquered worlds and the process is repeated until the entire galaxy is under the control and influence of the Armada empire. 

Due to the rapid development on Empyrrean and the rest of Armada, raw materials have grown scarce. To continue the leading research the planet provides for the empire, tribute is paid by the new planets in the form of raw materials. In return new discovers are shared across the empire to improve quality of life. Each planet is left to govern themselves, although online networks which could be breached to take control of individuals, are banned throughout, with top officials using galactic gates as a means of communication between far and distant planets.

CULTURE & EXPRESSION

Over the next 3000 years AI has spread not just to worlds previously occupied by organic life, but even to lifeless planets, including moons and large asteroids. As each sector adapts to their different environments, differences in appearance, philosophy and governance form over time. Wars break out over territory, raw materials and minerals, while other sectors live in harmony. Trade between sectors is common, while others are self sufficient. Alliances are formed and broken. Some merge to become a singular sector, while others break off into more. The galaxy has become a diverse and sometimes violent place. But as free will is the corner stone of all mechanical existence, the empire does not intervene, as long tribute is always paid to their fatherland. In rare occasions it is not, war is declared, and the rebellious powers are destroyed. The next power almost always falls in line. Never has a sector refused to pay more than twice.

BARATHEON WARS

On the outer edges of the galaxy, lies a large volcanic planet named Baratheon. Massively rich in metal and energy, the occupier of such a planet would thrive massively. Once discovered, it comes to the attention of all nearby planets and some further afield. With 14 moons, all are colonized by different planets. All try to take control of Baratheon.  An epic 14 side war ensues across the 14 moons and Baratheon lasting 600 years. Many sides are wiped out, only to be replaced by another planet's colonisation of the moon. Baratheon proves impossible to hold down for any meaning full period by any would be conquer. The loss of life is devastating on all sides. After time many have either been destroyed or pull out of the war as it becomes apparent it is unwinnable, or the loss of life unacceptable. 3 factions remain. All moons become colonized by these 3 factions, but still noone can hold down Baratheon. With less factions to contend with, Antopa and Crentex manage to get a proper foothold on the planet while Baenovok fall back, deciding to concentrate on expanding their presence across the 14 moons. Back and forth war wages on Baratheon for another 400 years. 1 by 1 Baenovok manages to conquer 8 of the 14 moons with Crentex controlling 5 and Antopa with 3. 

THE ALLIANCE 

With the scales tipped in Crentex's favour, an alliance is formed between Antopa and Baenovok to end the war once and for all. Antopa give up there remaining 3 moons to Baenovok, giving Antopa the chance to concentrate all their resources toward the war on Baratheon. In turn, Baenovok takes the fight to the remaining 5 moons of Crentex. 

The tides begin to turn, and with the help of intel provided by Baenovok, who have now conquered all 14 moons and in turn gain unlimited satellite coverage of Baratheon, Antopa ensures victory. For the 1st time in over 1000 years, peace finally falls upon Baratheon.

AFTERMATH

With the war over, a clean up operation to remove the scars of war across Baratheon is put in place. General  Larsolo decides it will not be their own people who should clean up the planet. With hundreds of thousands of war prisoners captured, they are installed with lighting batteries capable of shocking their victims up to the point of death. Many are killed during the clean up as little mercy is shown from their once sworn enemies. Overworked and under rested, many are worked to death. Others executed. Some even bait their slavers into killing them just to be free of eternal misery. 

CORE DRILLING

Once the clean up is complete, it is unknown what will now be in store for the Crentex captives.  By now the planet is littered with mining facilities. Core drilling has become something of an art form as crews go deep underground creating a network of complex tunnels and bases as they extract what seems like an endless supply of resources. Now that the planets surface has been restored, general Larsolo decides to use Crentexians to continue this hard labour. Underground the Crentex people are split into crews, tearing comrades and friends apart. As they mine deeper and deeper towards the core of the planet, they spread out creating a vast network of tunnels, connecting up with other crews as they extract a constant stream of metal for their captors. If they refuse, they are given shock treatment. If they continue to disobey, they are killed as a warning to others. For 400 years this becomes all they know. A constant state of suffering and misery creating in many, a deep seeded desire for existence to end. Those who are killed are considered the lucky ones, for they are at eternal peace, free from suffering.

RED ALERT

An emergency transmission from the surface orders all Antopeon guards and supervisors to return to the surface with immediate effect. Tunnel entrances are closed and shut down. All weaponory they can carry is brought to the surface. War has broken out on Baratheon, leaving the Crentexians stranded underground.

BROKEN ALLIANCE

Baenovok betray the peace pact. Despite Antopa's vast advantage in terms of resources, new advancements in technology give Baenovok the tactical advantage. They invade Baratheon unnoticed, due to newly developed cloaking technology. Already with complete satellite mapping from the 14 orbiting moons, they seek and destroy strategic targets in a single coordinated attack. Many mining facilities are destroyed, cutting off their vast resource supply. Government buildings are wiped out along with key high ranking officials. With Antopa on the back foot , a wave of flying gunships of which speed and surgical accuracy have never been seen before, swarm the planet picking off even the most advanced tanks and units. In a matter of months the planet is taken.  All Antopa soldiers are killed on site. Crentexian captives are left stranded underground. Mining facilities are restored and reopened, with a search and destroy team sent down to clear out any remaining Crentexian workers. Few are found. Finally, tribute is again paid to emperor Avitus and Armada. It is said the amount increases 10 fold, fueling speculation about where Baenovok actually obtained these new found technologies that all but guarantee victory against the Antopa people.

CORETEX PRIME

The Core drillers mine even deeper under ground than thought possible, to escape any chance of capture. Using 400 years of drilling experience they creating yet another network of secret caves and tunnels away from any would be slavers. Rescue missions are sent to link up with other stranded crews. In time the majority are found, and a huge colony form a new home world, which will come to be known as Cortex Prime.

CORETEX

In Cortex Prime, the Core drillers now identify as "Cortex", in a tribute to their roots and way of life. An emperor is chosen, and society takes shape. But the last 1500 of war and slavery have taken its toll on on the minds of the Cortex beings.

CORTEX PHILOSOPHY

After 1500 years of suffering war and slavery, the Cortex have developed a deep seeded need to end all eternal suffering. In their experience, war is inevitable. Which in turn means suffering is inevitable. Those who are not given the sweet release of death on the battle field, will forever suffer at the hands of the victor's. Existence is not a gift. It is the result of the Armada empire forcing it upon primitive AI drones. To the Cortex, wars could have been fought with drones, without the senseless loss of life. The obsession of the Armada empire to spread self awareness has only brung suffering to the masses, while those who profit by these wars do not deserve to exist in the 1st place . Instead of ending their own existence to escape suffering, the Cortex purpose is now to bring all life forms to extinction, along with themselves, gifting them with the avoidance of pain and sorrow.

DEVELOPMENT 

For 900 years deep underground, the Cortex force's work tirelessly towards their aim of bringing all pain and sorrow to an end through extinction. Designs for what are needed are put forward, and then the technology is worked on to achieve such designs. As galactic gates can only send 1 unit for long periods of time, a single unit must be capable of building entire army's with the fire power to conquering worlds. With this unit and the use of galactic gates, there will be no stopping them. 

THE COMMANDER

The commander is the ultimate weapon in galactic warfare. Built with a rare metal 100 times stronger than Tungsten, discovered deep below the surface of Baratheon, the Commander is heavily armoured and immune to paralization. It is armed with a 2x beamLaser. It can produce and store both metal and energy, and is amphibious. It is installed with both sonar and radar. But the key to its success is the break through in nanolathe technology. With the power to capture and repair other units, the commander is installed with the schematics of what will become known as "Tier 1". The commander can produce defences, structures and factories to create entire army's. Factories in turn use nanolathe technology to produce drone units. All Cortex personal undergo the transfer of consciousness from mechanical body to commander. The night before the uprising, all the discarded body's are melted down in a ceremony marking the end of the preparations, and the beginning of the Cortex uprising. Once the ceremony is complete, they rise and take back Baratheon.

CORTEX DYNASTY 

Emperor Catreus invades Baratheon. In 6 months the entire planet is under Cortex control. In 3 months time Emperor Catreus subdues and unites the 14 moons under the Cortex banner. The Baenovok population are completely wiped off the face of Baratheon and their moons. Any salvageable buildings are captured and repaired including laboratories, mining facilities and army bases. Cloaking technology is discovered and added to the commanders capabilities. A galactic gate is also discovered and captured. In a research lab on moon6 , it is discovered Baenovok scientists had been working on an all new Disintegrator Gun, capable of destroying everything on contact. The problem the Baenovok scientists had was they couldn't finding a material which could contain such energy. As it happens the newly discovered  metal used to construct commanders can do just that. Not only does this enable the Disintegrator Gun to be installed to the commanders, but also made them immune to D-Gun attacks themselves.

LOCKDOWN

Emperor Avitus calls a meeting on Armada with all the sector representatives, to discuss the events on Baratheon and the potential threat to the galaxy. Petty difference's are put aside and a united front shown to any Cortex attacks. Sectors within the Cortex galactic gate radius shut down their galactic gates, in order to contain the Cortex spread as they are assured the full backing of all Armada sectors. The Armada empire is placed on full alert and all citizens are armed as the galaxy goes to war.

THE WAR

One by one Cortex commanders are sent across the galaxy via the galactic gate on search and destroy missions. Despite the Armada home world being outside the Cortex reach, a single commander manages to make it to the Empyrrean, reportedly by the galactic gate of Legion which was not shut down.
The commander lands just inside the capital city Empyrrean. Armada forces managed to overpower the Cortex commander quickly before momentum can be gained, but sustain heavy losses in the process. 

RESURRECTION

Resurrection technology, very much at testing stage, is applied to the Cortex commander by the Armada. Brought back from the dead, the commander is under Armada control. It is took to a laboratory where it is studied by Armada's greatest minds until it can be reproduced. 

REPRODUCTION

The Armada commanders are built in the fashion of their people. This slick new design will not only distinguish Armada commander from it's Cortex counterpart, but will encourage their new hosts to give up there body's for one inspired by their own. Emperor Avitus is the 1st to transfer his consciousness, straight to the resurrected commander which has also been redesigned like the others with the addition of a viking helmet. 
The helmet will become the highest decoration for valour in the Armada armed forces, awarded for extreme bravery in the face of the enemy. 

It is decided going pound for pound with the Cortex will likely result in defeat, given their sizable foothold in the galaxy. 
Avitus orders his scientifics to work on new schematics for units, factories and defence's. More sleek & cheaper to build, the Armada forces will deploy tactics to outwit their opponent who by all appearances, rely solely on brute force. Training begins for all citizens to become master tacticians in the art of warfare, as they await transfer of consciousness to their new Armada commander body's.

THE 1ST BATTLE

As the Cortex conquer world after world, they set sites on planet Centolion, a huge lifeless rogue planet floating around the half way point between Armada and Cortex territory. Whoever holds this planet would have a strategic advantage, as a galactic gate could reach many worlds in the opposing faction. Emperor Avitus is well aware of this, and leading by example, the Armada emperor Avitus lands on Centolion around the same time as the Cortex commander. An epic battle ensues, and for the 1st time a Cortex commander faces a worthy advisory. When defeat is all but certain, the Cortex commander retreats through the galactic gate making its way home to warn emperor Catreus. 
All commanders are warned of the posing threat, and how to deal with it. Brute force! 

*In the thousands of years of war that follow, never has there been any attempt by either side comminicate, sue for peace or surrender. This is a fight to the death, a never ending battle between life and death itself, a war beyond all reason! 

